A Web API acts as the communication layer between the frontend application and the database.

E-commerce project:

React Frontend
      ↓
   HTTP request
      ↓
ASP.NET Core Web API
      ↓
Entity Framework Core
      ↓
SQL Server

web api avoids duplicate business logic. for react application and android application same web api logics works. user buy product

Web API is a concept that works on HTTP protocol

.NET has two frameworks to create Web API
Asp.NET WebAPI 2
Asp.NET Core(latest)

REST is a set of priniciples that the web api follows
URL structure
HTTP verbs
Status codes
Stateless

HTTP request contains url, http verb(methods), headers, body, data
HTTP response contains status code, response headers, data

HTTP verbs(methods)-GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE

HTTP Status Codes
1xx informational
2xx successful
3xx redirectional
4xx client error
5xx server error 





ASP .NET CORE
in this project we built Web API using .net and website frontend using React

program.cs file configures and starts the application

Controller is the request handler. handles HTTP requests

Entity Framework Core communicates with the SQL server. It makes the database interaction easier using C#.
var users = await _context.Users.ToListAsync();
EF Core converts this kind of C# operation into appropriate SQL/database operation.

.NET is the platform that provides the runtime, libraries, and tools for building/running the code.
ASP.NET Core is the web framework on .NET that is uses to build the API.

.NET SDk contains the tools to create, build, and develop .NET applications.
It contains compiler, .NET CLI, build tools, project templates, libraries, tools.

dotnet create new webapi
it creates a project template. it creates program.cs, appsettings.json, projectname.csproj
projectname.csproj contains information about the project such as packages, dependencies, project configurations.

dotnet run
it reads the csproj file, restores required packages, compiles the C# code, creates application, starts the application, kestrel web server starts

NuGet is the package ecosystem/package manager for .NET.

Program.cs is where the ASP.NET Core application is configured and started.

var builder=WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);
Creates a builder
creating and configuring a web application. CreateBuilder creates a builder object that we use to configure our application.
command-line arguments can be passed to the application. application can use command-line configuration if needed.

builder.Services is where we register services that our application needs.

builder.Services.AddControllers(); It adds controller services to the application's service collection

A service is generally a class/object that performs some work for our application.
ASP.NET Core has a Dependency Injection container that keeps track of these services.

