api.js is the common entry point for all HTTP requests from the React frontend to the backend.

different services needed common things:

Request
 ├── Backend URL
 ├── SessionId
 ├── JWT token
 ├── possibly other headers
 └── actual endpoint/data

 Instead of using Axios directly everywhere, we create our own Axios instance.

baseURL is not a JavaScript keyword.
It is a configuration property understood by Axios.
If we are using Vite, client-side environment variables must start with VITE_

API_URL=https://localhost:7144/api
will not be exposed to your the frontend through import.meta.env.

api.interceptors.request
is an Axios request interceptor, means before the request goes to the backend or leaves the browser, it runs this code.
interceptor run the code inside it before leaving the browser

It is not a feature built directly into the React core framework. 
it is a middleware-like function provided by HTTP clients(Axios) that allows us to globally intercept, modify, or handle network requests and responses before they are processed by the components

UUID means Universally Unique Identifier.

config contains Axios's information about the request, such as method , url, headers, data, params

config.headers["X-Session-Id"] = sessionId;
adds a custom HTTP header.

config.headers.Authorization means modifies the Authorization header of the Axios request.

sessionStorage is a browser-provided storage area.

Why is SessionId in a header?
Because it is request metadata, not the actual business data.

login process stores the JWT:
localStorage.setItem("token", token);
Later, when the user makes a protected request, api.js gets it.

api.interceptors.request is an object (axios sets this up internally) that manages a list of interceptor functions.
.use is a method on that object. means: it takes whatever function that is passed to it
and it adds them to its internal list of functions and runs it before every request or response

Express's app.use(...) registers middleware — functions that run on every incoming request to the server, before the route handlers.
Axios's api.interceptors.request.use(...) registers interceptors — functions that run on every outgoing request from the frontend, before it is sent to the backend.

CORS preflight is a preliminary HTTP request that the browser sends to the backend to check whether the actual request is allowed.

every cross-origin request does not requires preflight. Simple requests can be sent directly, while requests that don't meet the browser's simple-request conditions may require it.
cors preflight request donot to go to the backend through api.js, so its logs does not have session id

CORS preflight request is not sent by the axios. it is sent by the browser. whenver there is a request ready to go for the backend axios prepares it and has the request in it
when the origins are different browser see that request url and sends a preflight reequest to that url